Introducing Ukraine Map MOD (Beta) Winter and Summer

This project has been on going for three weeks now. 
All my the map creating skills have been tested here-in. 
I am a newbe and I joined this forum after I learned 
that IL2 mod's where possible. I used all the knowledge 
here (tools tutorials etc.) on this forum I could and I 
am very satisfied with the results, so much so I wish 
to share it with you all.

1.) I was able to find the Kiev maps using the SFS.exe program. 
once I figured out how it searched the data in the *.sfs files. 
Kiev was in fb_maps13 btw.

2.) learned how to use microdem and put together the elevation
data and created a new Map_h.tga.

3.) Learned what was required in the file task relationship
through trial and error. So I consider I have a good understanding
of the actors.stadic, map_t, map_h, map_c and map_f,(as for the 
map_m ?). For this process the FMB+ and map tools was an absolute 
essential component.

What I decided to create was a new Kiev map, both summer and winter.
using a more detailed and interesting terrain model. 
By removing 253 of the 405 bridges and reworked all the water to 
essentially one large river (the Dnieper River), but all the areas that
had water will still look like wet lands (using textures) but vehicles 
will be able to cross them un restricted. This water change frees up a 
whole new dynamic with ground vehicles for guys who like huge tank 
battles and a dis-like the congestion of large convoys at bridges. 
More over this lack of bridges makes for a more fluid front line.
I also added an Air field north of Koroston, in the north west corner 
as well as adding some new roads and long rail lines with much fewer
choke points. 
I think you will enjoy this new map mod of both winter and summer in the 
Ukraiane as much as I do.

Just un-zip in your Mods/maps/Ukraine  directory, and add these lines 
to your all.ini

Ukraine_Summer Ukraine/load.ini
Ukraine_Winter Ukraine/load_w.ini

I also would like to thank all who's work made this mod possible on the AAA 
forum.


-Autopilot       4/15/2008