Straight Down by Zeus-cat

Early 1942:  The war in the Pacific is going poorly for the United States and the other Allied forces in the months after Pearl Harbor.  The Japanese are taking island after island and the Allies, although fighting stubbornly at every opportunity, are being pushed back everywhere the Japanese decide to plant the flag of the Rising Sun.  

Many of the ships sunk or damaged at Pearl Harbor will not join the war for many months, but the work of raising and repairing them has begun.  Bloodied, but not beaten, the U.S. Pacific fleet is prepared to fight back.  You and the other men of your dive-bomber squadron are part of this task force about to embark on the great battle for the Pacific.  You have been assigned to Task Force Samson, a large battlegroup consisting of four aircraft carriers, five heavy cruisers, twenty-six destroyers and numerous auxiliaries heading for Midway to confront the Emperor’s forces.  

On an island so remote it has no name, only a number, the war is no longer a headline in the newspapers.  At 0327 on May 14, 1942 the war became personal for the men on Island 419 when the Japanese juggernaut came ashore.  In a daring move, the Japanese landed a small amphibious force in early in the morning and attacked the only base on the island.  The small airfield on the northern end of the island was quickly overrun and destroyed.  Some of the soldiers and airmen were captured or killed in their sleep, but many others got away.  The airfield, its planes and AAA guns were all lost.  A few of the valiant defenders sacrificed themselves in a fight to the death to allow their brothers in arms a chance to load a number of trucks with small weapons and supplies and make their escape.  This rag tag collection of pilots, maintenance men, cooks and clerks headed south under the command of Lt. Col. Bellware to find a place to mount a defense and hold off the attackers.  Upon hearing the account of the brave actions on Island 419, the brass has decided to send your carrier and two destroyers to go to the aid of the defenders.  Your small force has been designated Task Force Zeus.  You are to aid the defenders as best you can, evacuating them only as a last resort.  The brass wants the enemy stopped cold in their tracks!


The Campaign & Settings:  Straight Down is a 26 mission, single player campaign for the SBD-3 dive-bomber in the Pacific Theater of Operations.  It consists of a single training mission followed by 25 combat missions on two different maps.  All of the combat missions are carrier based. 

Game Version: The campaign was built using a merged install of the game (4.01m), but has been fully tested on a PF standalone (4.01) and works correctly.

Weather and time of day:  Some missions take place very early in the morning or late in the evening, other missions take place under poor weather conditions (rain, thunderstorms), so full real should only be attempted by those who can navigate and find targets without the mini-map.

Missions:  Your first set of missions will be in support of a group of U.S. Army Air Force personnel in danger of being overrun by a Japanese invasion force shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Your second set of missions will take place far out in the Pacific Ocean deep inside enemy territory.  You will conduct raids against Japanese shipping, naval forces and several small island outposts.

Objectives:  The Primary Objective in all combat missions is to reach the target area; therefore, the campaign can be played with “No Instant Success” turned on or off.  Destruction of the target is always a Secondary or Hidden Objective.  Landing on the carrier is always a Hidden Objective.

Difficulty settings:  The campaign can be flown at any difficulty level of you choose.  Full real is an option as the briefings contain sufficient information to guide you to every target (or reasonably close). 

Briefings:  Briefings may contain errors regarding targets, target locations, AAA or enemy aircraft strength.

Low end PCs:  The campaign has been designed so that it should play quite well on low end PCs.

Rank:  The campaign has been configured so that you will always be in an aircraft belonging to flight 1 of squadron 1.  You may choose any rank you wish to start the campaign.  Here are the plane assignments depending on which rank you pick.  

Aircraft    Rank 
Plane #4   Aviation Pilot 1st Class
Plane #4   Ensign
Plane #2   Lieutenant (junior grade)
Plane #2   Lieutenant
Plane #1   Lieutenant Commander
Plane #1   Commander
Plane #1   Captain

Flying as plane #2 may be the best option for most players.  You can follow plane number one to the target which eliminates the need to navigate.  You also avoid the problem of attacking as “tail-end Charlie” and finding all the targets destroyed by the rest of your flight (most missions, especially land base ones, have plenty of targets).


If you have comments regarding Straight Down, or any of my other campaigns, send me an e-mail at zeuscat@sbcglobal.com

A continuation of Straight Down is already underway (started in October 2005).  Missions for part two will include:
- Missions aboard the escort carrier Polar Viper in the frigid waters off the Aleutian Islands (sorry, but not available for PF standalone installations).
- A brief visit to Castaway Island to find a Japanese coast watcher.
- An assault against a major Japanese island airfield and supporting naval forces
- Assisting the Marines in taking a small Pacific island
- Precision attacks against targets on the Japanese homeland
